Chapter 12 of the Gospel according to St. Matthew King James Version this LibriVox recording is in the public domain
recording by Michael Packard
At that time Jesus went on the Sabbath day through the corn and his disciples
Were and hungered and began to pluck the ears of corn and to eat
But when the Pharisees saw it they said unto him behold thy disciples
Do that which is not lawful to do upon the Sabbath day, but he said unto them
Have you not read what David did when he was and hungered and they that were with him?
How he entered into the house of God and did eat the showbread which was not lawful for him to eat neither for them
That were with him, but only for the priests
Or have you not read in the law?
How that on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless
But I say unto you that in this place is one greater than the temple
But if ye had known what this meaneth I will have mercy and not sacrifice
Ye would have not condemned the guiltless
For the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath day
And when he was departed thence
He went into their synagogue and behold there was a man which had his hand withered and
They asked him saying is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath days that they might accuse him and
He said unto them what man shall there be among you that shall have one sheep and
If it fall into a pit on the Sabbath day will he not lay hold on it and lift it out
How much then is a man better than a sheep?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath days
Then saith he to the man
stretch forth thine hand and
He stretched it forth and it was restored whole like as the other
Then the Pharisees went out and held counsel against him how they might destroy him
but when Jesus knew it he withdrew himself from thence and
great multitudes followed him and he healed them all and
Charged them that they should not make him known that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah as the prophet saying
Behold my servant whom I have chosen
My beloved in whom my soul is well pleased
I will put my spirit upon him and he shall show judgment to the Gentiles
He shall not strive nor cry
neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets a
bruised reed shall he not break and
Smoking flax shall he not quench till he send forth judgment unto victory and
In his name shall the Gentiles trust
Then was brought unto him one possessed with the devil blind and dumb and he healed him
in so much that the blind and dumb both spake and saw and
All the people were amazed and said is not this the son of David
but when the Pharisees heard it they said this fellow doth not cast out devils but by Bielzebub the prince of the devils and
Jesus knew their thoughts and said unto them
every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation and
Every city or house divided against itself shall not stand and
if Satan cast out Satan
He is divided against himself how shall then his kingdom stand and
If I by Bielzebub cast out devils by whom do your children cast them out?
Therefore they shall be your judges
But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God
Then the kingdom of God is come unto you or else
How can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods except he first
Bind the strong man and then he will spoil his house
He that is not with me is
against me and
He that gathereth not with me
scattereth abroad
Wherefore I say unto you all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men
but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost
shall not be forgiven unto men and
Whosoever speaketh the word against the son of man it shall be forgiven him
But whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost
It shall not be forgiven him neither in this world nor in the world to come
Either make the tree good and
his fruit good or
Else make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt for the tree is known by his fruit. Oh
Generation of vipers how can ye being evil speak good things?
For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh a
Good-man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things and an evil man
Out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things
But I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak
They shall give account thereof in the day of judgment
for by thy words thou shalt be justified and
By thy words thou shalt be condemned
Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered saying master we would see a sign from thee
But he answered and said unto them an
evil and adulterous
Generation seeketh after a sign and there shall no sign be given to it
but the sign of the prophet Jonas
For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly
So shall the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth
The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation and shall condemn it
Because they repented at the preaching of Jonas and behold a greater than Jonas is here
The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this generation and shall condemn it
For she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon and behold a
Greater than Solomon is here when the unclean spirit is gone out of a man
He walketh through dry places seeking rest and findeth none
Then he saith I will return into my house from whence I came out and
When he has come he findeth it empty swept and garnished
Then goeth he and taketh with himself
Seven other spirits more wicked than himself and they enter in and dwell there and
The last state of that man is worse than the first even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation
While he yet talked to the people
Behold his mother and his brethren stood without
Desiring to speak with him
Then one said unto him behold thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to speak with thee
But he answered and said unto him that told him
who is my mother and who are my brethren and
He stretched forth his hand toward his disciples and said behold my mother and my brethren
For whosoever shall do the will of my father which is in heaven
The same is my brother and sister and mother end of chapter 12
recording by Michael Packard